Hello and welcome to another breakpoint session and it always helps to trace the runtime to understand
exactly what's going on.
So here I'm going to place a breakpoint on step number two where we're calling the method that we want
to test.
And the purpose of the unit test is to check if grade service get grades is able to successfully retrieve
the grades from the repository.
So what I'll do is I will debug this test.
It's going to stop at this breakpoint and then I will step inside of grade service to get grades here.
All it's doing is calling grade grades.
And we already mocked grade reports, get grades to return an array list of two grade objects when it's
called.
So ultimately this is just going to return an array list of two objects and then get grades is going
to quote unquote successfully get the grades from the grade repo.
So here we can see that grade service get grades was able to successfully grab the two grade objects
from the repo and then we stored the ArrayList in a result.
But the step in where we make sure that grade service that get grades is behaving correctly is in the
third step where we make assertions first, we assert, we verify that the name at index zero of the
result, we expect it to be hairy.
And then we also assert that the subject at index, one of our result should be arithmetic.
See.
So if both of these assertions pass, that means our method is behaving correctly.
The test passes, so we're good.
Now I know what you're thinking.
Of course this was going to work.
All get grades is doing is returning data that we mocked and you would be right and not wanting to test
this method in fact you shouldn't because if you test methods like this, then all you're doing is cluttering
your grade service test class with meaningless tests.
So in real life you wouldn't want to test methods like this because there would be no room for bugs
to creep into them.
But a method like get great index is easy to mess up.
Instead of saying get ID, you might say get a name or something which might be a bug that's really,
really hard to spot unless you pull your hairs out and then eventually find out that you made a typo.
But with unit tests, we don't have to worry about this.
We can test every meaningful method that provides meaningful logic.
So this unit test will make sure when get great index is called upon receiving an ID that is valid,
it will return the correct index of this object and when it's given a bad ID it will return a not found
value.
So let's play some breakpoints and then I will debug this test.
I'll step inside, get great service dog.
Get great index.
We don't care about that.
Step out.
Now, if I press step in again, it's going to go in here.
Okay.
Here we're calling get grids.
And get grades, calls, grades, get grades.
We already mocked grade reports, get grades to return an ArrayList of one grade object.
So if I step over.
Here we can see that get grades ultimately returned in array list of one grade object exactly as we
mocked it.
So this loop is only going to run once.
Here we're calling get grade at index zero.
If I step inside.
It's going to call grade repo.
I get grade at index zero and we already marked grade three.
Get grade at index zero to return our grade object.
So if I step over the following method.
It returns the great object for Harry.
Here we see his ID name, score and subject.
And now get grade index is going to successfully compare the ID of the grade in our data store against
the ID that's passed in and return the correct index.
So if everything works out, it should return an index of zero.
And indeed it does.
We're storing this index inside of a variable called valid.
And then we're calling great service, great index.
Again, passing in a value of 1 to 3.
So here, get grades, calls, grade reports, get grades, which was marked to return an ArrayList
of one object.
That's exactly what it does.
Inside the for loop.
We're grabbing the object.
That index I.
I'll step inside of get grade.
And we marked get graded index zero to return the following grade.
And so here it compares the grades ID against the ID that was passed in its they're not equal.
So this statement will not execute.
Instead it will return consonants not found.
And then here we make assertions to verify that the methods did work as intended.
We expect the valid value to be zero.
We expect the not found value to equal constance dot not found.
That is the case and our test passes.
Now I'll leave it to you to breakpoint the remaining tests.
If I breakpoint all of them, this would take forever.
But I hope you were able to see just how we're able to mock what the grade repo can or can't return
so that we can test great services methods and complete isolation.
All right.
See you in the next lesson where we cover integration testing.